README.md, before:

# Palamedes

## Description 

Palamedes is a utility  useful to native Greek speakers and Greek scholars
(Hellenists) who wish to type traditional Greek (often referred to as
multi-accented or polytonic) under the Microsoft Windows Operating system.
All versions of Windows (post Windows XP, 32 bit and 64 bit) are supported.  

This utility  allows the typing of multi-accented (polytonic) Greek text in
the manner of writing by hand. Accents and breathings are typed after the
vowels, in any order, without dead keys. In other words, first we type the
letter and then we "decorate" it with the required accents. Typing
multi-accented Greek with Palamedes is more intuitive and it is similar to
the way we write by hand. Furthermore, it is easier to memorize the very few
accent keys of Palamedes when compared with the 25+ key combinations needed
by the official Microsoft Greek Polytonic keymap.

Palamedes also facilitates the typing of punctuation and other symbols used
in the Greek script (e.g. ϗ,Ϟ,Ϡ,ϙ,€,·). 

###### Table of the main accent keys

| KEY          |     ACCENT          |
|:------------:|:------------------- |
|/             | Oxia (*acute*)
|\             | Varia (*grave*)
|~ or =        | Perispomeni (*circumflex*)
|]             | Psili  (*lenis*)
|[             | Dasia (*asper*)
|"             | Dialytika (*diaeresis*)
|\|            | Ypogegrammeni (*Iota subscript*)

For example to produce the charcter **ᾄ**, we type 'a' followed by 
any combination of the keys '/', ']' and '|'.

The function of the dead key (;:), as used in monotonic Greek, 
has been retained. So the character **ά** can be entered with the keys
';a' or 'a/'.

For detailed usage information and a more complete table of the function of
the keys see the documentation included in the package.

Palamedes is written in C and it uses the Windows API hook mechanism to trap
and modify key press events when Greek is typed. Typing in other
languages is not affected and Palamedes ignores keys that does not know
about.


## Compiling

To compile Palamedes you need [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
and the [MinGW GCC](http://www.mingw.org/) compiler. 

[Tex Live](https://www.tug.org/texlive/) is also needed to build the documentation and the cheat sheet.

    git clone https://github.com/proteusx/palamedes
    cd palamedes/src
    make

This will build the executable `palamedes.exe`, its hooking library
`hooker.dll`, and the documentation. 

Palamedes can also be built with Microsoft Visual Studio albeit with some
modifications to the source files. These modifications are found commented
out in the source files.

## Running Palamedes

Palamedes has been tested with Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8 and 10, is extremely
fast and unintrusive and fully portable (i.e. it installs nothing in the system
directories nor it affects the registry in any way).  To use it, place the
executable and its dll in the same directory (preferably in \Program
Files\palamedes\ and create a Desktop shortcut for palamedes.exe) and double
click on `palamedes.exe`. If all is in order an icon will appear in the
Notification Area (Systray).  Activate Palamedes from its systray icon, switch
your keyboard to Greek, and you can start typing polytonic Greek. 

Right click and `Help` on the Palamedes' icon, pops up a list of the keys
and their effect. 

Note that you need at least one Unicode font that includes the glyphs
(characters) in the Greek (0370-03FF) **and** the Extended Greek
(1F00-1FFF) ranges. Examples of such fonts are Times New Roman, Palatino
Linotype, Consolas and the DejaVu family.

For a complete usage information refer to the documentation.

## To Do

The documentation is in Greek only. 
Translate documentation into English.

Commit message:

Version 1.0.3 Use Mutex to prevent other instances from running

README.md, after:

# Palamedes

## Description 

Palamedes is a utility  useful to native Greek speakers and Greek scholars
(Hellenists) who wish to type traditional Greek (often referred to as
multi-accented or polytonic) under the Microsoft Windows Operating system.
All versions of Windows (post Windows XP, 32 bit and 64 bit) are supported.  

This utility  allows the typing of multi-accented (polytonic) Greek text in
the manner of writing by hand. Accents and breathings are typed after the
vowels, in any order, without dead keys. In other words, first we type the
letter and then we "decorate" it with the required accents. Typing
multi-accented Greek with Palamedes is more intuitive and it is similar to
the way we write by hand. Furthermore, it is easier to memorize the very few
accent keys of Palamedes when compared with the 25+ key combinations needed
by the official Microsoft Greek Polytonic keymap.

Palamedes also facilitates the typing of punctuation and other symbols used
in the Greek script (e.g. ϗ,Ϟ,Ϡ,ϙ,€,·). 

###### Table of the main accent keys

| KEY          |     ACCENT          |
|:------------:|:------------------- |
|/             | Oxia (*acute*)
|\             | Varia (*grave*)
|~ or =        | Perispomeni (*circumflex*)
|]             | Psili  (*lenis*)
|[             | Dasia (*asper*)
|"             | Dialytika (*diaeresis*)
|\|            | Ypogegrammeni (*Iota subscript*)

For example to produce the charcter **ᾄ**, we type 'a' followed by 
any combination of the keys '/', ']' and '|'.

The function of the dead key (;:), as used in monotonic Greek, 
has been retained. So the character **ά** can be entered with the keys
';a' or 'a/'.

For detailed usage information and a more complete table of the function of
the keys see the documentation included in the package.

Palamedes is written in C and it uses the Windows API hook mechanism to trap
and modify key press events when Greek is typed. Typing in other
languages is not affected and Palamedes ignores keys that does not know
about.


## Compiling

To compile Palamedes you need [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
and the [MinGW GCC](http://www.mingw.org/) compiler. 

[Tex Live](https://www.tug.org/texlive/) is also needed to build the documentation and the cheat sheet.

    git clone https://github.com/proteusx/palamedes
    cd palamedes/src
    make

This will build the executable `palamedes.exe`, its hooking library
`hooker.dll`, and the documentation. 

Palamedes can also be built with Microsoft Visual Studio albeit with some
modifications to the source files. These modifications are found commented
out in the source files.

### Precompiled binaries

There are compressed [precompiled binaries](https://github.com/proteusx/Palamedes/releases)
and documentation available for 32 and 64 bit windows. Download the latest version and extract
in some convinient.

## Running Palamedes

Palamedes has been tested with Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8 and 10, is extremely
fast and unintrusive and fully portable (i.e. it installs nothing in the system
directories nor it affects the registry in any way).  To use it, place the
executable and its dll in the same directory (preferably in \Program
Files\palamedes\ and create a Desktop shortcut for palamedes.exe) and double
click on `palamedes.exe`. If all is in order an icon will appear in the
Notification Area (Systray).  Activate Palamedes from its systray icon, switch
your keyboard to Greek, and you can start typing polytonic Greek. 

Right click and `Help` on the Palamedes' icon, pops up a list of the keys
and their effect. 

Note that you need at least one Unicode font that includes the glyphs
(characters) in the Greek (0370-03FF) **and** the Extended Greek
(1F00-1FFF) ranges. Examples of such fonts are Times New Roman, Palatino
Linotype, Consolas and the DejaVu family.

For a complete usage information refer to the documentation.

## To Do

The documentation is in Greek only. 
Translate documentation into English.
